Day 1 On the first day,  I was able to complete my HR onboarding process, which included a review of the Company Rules and Regulations and the Company Profiles that are under them. I was able to familiarise myself with the four subsidiaries: Mayo Holdings and Construction, Inc., ISO Tech, SETS,Inc, and MYFC. HR personnel then took me to their Key Departments to understand the organisational workflow, including SOG, CSG, Accounting, Billing, Clinic, HR, Warehouse, and Purchasing. The first task that I was able to accomplish was assisting Sir Jerico in fixing the CCTV but before we started, I received instructions from Sir Bernabe on CCTV maintenance protocols. Key takeaways that are in the safety requirement is that to always work in pairs when fixing units and a strict prohibition of maintenance during a drizzle or rain. I saw how the CCTVs were fixed, learned about different types of CCTVs, and different types of tools that are being used to maintain them. On that day, I was fortunate enough to complete some cold calls in conducting inventory checks on company-issued mobile phones. I am also required to make a JAR (Job Accomplished Report) at the end of my shift and a TTD (Things To Do) at the start of my shift to Sir Bernabe. Day 2 The next day, reading articles on daily.dev is one of the must practices I must carry out to stay updated with the current trends. I start reading as soon as I arrive. The next task assisted Mam Yvette in auditing the current codebase to establish a cohesive Design System. We utilised Inspect Element and manually reviewed CSS(Cascading Style Sheets) in Visual Studio Code to identify repetitive patterns. I also helped Sir Charles and Sir Jericho in setting up the laptops and phones for a Holy Mass that is conducted onsite in a Chapel. My last task for that day is to research how to make reusable components in Figma.Day 3 To conclude the week, I observed how the routers are fixed and how to set them up. After that, the task I was assigned was the continuation of the inventory for SETS, Inc., and I assisted Sir Charles with the printer in the billing department.Day 4On the first day of the week, I helped Sir Charles put back the printer in the billing department. I read an article about Design Logs, I implemented it and it narrowed what I am supposed to do and help me not be lost. I was taught how to distribute the number of IPs by Sir Jerico by subtracting the 3rd octet web addresses in 255.255.128.0 with this I am able to cater around 32,768 numbers of IPs. This is done by entering the printer’s web address and setting it up there.Day 5 By the second day, I reviewed the architecture diagram and was given access to the admin page of their wordpress website. After that I was instructed to call SETs and help with their inventory. Sir Bernabe also taught me  techniques on how to pull out files from the cabinet. On the last period on the shift I installed Elementor, Yeost, Asta, Wordfence, and Essential Addons after installing them I successfully tried and tested.Day 6 In the third day, I saw the system that they have been using and observed how it works. I was also able to implement designs on the website that they plan to use and fill it with info that they might need. I decided to use Elementor for them not to be confused on how to operate the website because it develops systems the app or system used be user-friendly.Day 7 On the fourth, I was able to structure the company page hierarchy, improved my layout, and did a site audit in case someone will be using the site. We disposed of assets that were old and not being used.Day 8 On the last day, I resumed the encoding of inventory on excel and observed how the process of returning a phone is handled and created contact forms to be filled out on the website. Sir Jerico taught me how to crimp and the basics of crimping with ease.Day 9 On the first day of the week, I observed how problems on the web application are identified and handled. Ma'am Yvette even showed me a programmer's thought process by walking me through UI audits, brainstorming, computations, and algorithms of the incoming system. I also implemented the brand colors on this day.By the second day, I continued developing my assigned website. I changed the color scheme to improve visibility and readability, creating a better and more cohesive look across the pages.Day 10 On the third day, I presented what I had created in WordPress and replaced the drafts that i made with the info i got from their company profile, but Sir Bernabe pointed out that the header was missing a few elements and he said that the client would need a section that has feedback, product, customer feedback which made me think he was asking for testimonials. Later, I helped replace an RJ45 connector on a broken camera network line in the warehouse department.Day 11 On the fourth, I updated the colors on the website I am working on after Ma'am Yvette advised me to look at Dribbble for design inspiration and I improved the images that were given to me in the company profile to make the pictures in the website more clear and cleaner. After lunch, I helped Sir Jerico add new RJ45 connectors to the cameras in the HR department. He taught me that making sure the wire jacket is fully inserted into the RJ45 makes the connection both cleaner and strongerDay 12 Over these four days, I balanced web development tasks with practical hardware troubleshooting. I learned about problem-solving and UI audits from a junior programmer, and I continuously improved my assigned WordPress site based on design and functionality feedback from Sir Bernabe and Ma'am Yvette. Additionally, I gained hands-on experience repairing network camera lines, specifically learning the proper technique for crimping RJ45 connectors with Sir Jerico. Until this day i still read articles about development in the daily dev as part of my daily routine to being a better developer.Day 13 I designed the contact pages and began implementing the design concepts as instructed by Ma’am Yvette. I subsequently attended the meeting on the Leave System, where I took notes. With this, I was in a position to understand how to make effective presentations and explain to the end-user how the system will be constructed.Day 14 I kept on working on the webpage and consulted Ma’am Yvette on possible structures. I also helped Sir Jerico with the Preventative Maintenance Schedule (PMS) of the laptops in the other building. In the evening, Ma'am Yvette instructed me on the process of communicating with the client, particularly on how to collect requirements and then proceed to explain to the client the specifics so that they are correct.Day 15 I optimized the products section and provided important features on the Kitchen Exhaust Hood. Sir Bernabe saw my work and handed me the next task of the Service page. I made a layout to provide him with an idea of the concept in a visual way. Moreover, Sir Jerico showed me how to install the Ricoh scanner that needed the creation of a shared file and the setting of IP addresses of both computers to share them with the scanner.Day 16 I went on with the development of the websites and examined the presentation slides to get pictures. I have gathered and sorted the images that correspond to the site sections with the help of Figma. I also enlarged the pictures so that they were of high quality and usable.Day 17 I helped Sir Charles and Sir Jerico relocate IT equipment to the new HR Building, and this included cleaning equipment and wiring. I learnt how to find a live LAN cable, and Sir Jerico showed how to fit a wall socket of a LAN cable. I checked the wiring lines, found the cables with the tester and was able to crimp an RJ45 connector successfully. Lastly, I helped in the alignment of the CCTVs.Day 18 - I proceeded with the creation of the corporate site, particularly, the design and the content of the Services section. Nevertheless, I could not continue to the very end of the implementation process because of the absence of the definite image assets that were needed on the page. I instead opted to spend as much time as was possible on asset preparation, in which case I used Figma to scale and manipulate the existing placeholders to fit into the appropriate dimensions of the website design framework.Day 19 - I displayed the latest development version of the site to the Corporate Secretary, which is Ma’am Leah. She is extremely detail-oriented and gave precious points on how to make the site better. In this meeting, she informed me about the history of MaYo Holdings and Construction, Inc., rules they adhere to and how the site should be in line with the vision of SOG. This critiquing was critical in making sure that the online version of the company reflects itself to the corporate image.Day 20  - I took the day changing the site to suit the vision, and responses of Ma'am Leah. I have included the history of the company in the history of the site where I observed that the name MaYo is the fused words of the names of the founders Sir Manny Ramos and Maam Yollie Ramos. Later in my shift, I switched to work in technical support, where I helped Sir Jerico and Sir Charles to install the appropriate equipment and audio-visual needs in the chapel.Day 21 - I was tasked to assist with the technical side of the 69th Golden Years reunion of Sir Manny Ramos that was to be hosted at the farm. The main task that I needed to take care of was the sound and audio system and set up of the event with Sir Jerico. I would control the list of music and handle the requests of the elders and the guests keeping the necessary level of sound and making sure that the program does not go off the track in terms of technical failures.Day 22 - I continue my daily task and try to complete past TTD’s that I haven't done to not have any pendings and continue with the progress of finishing the website and also I did my weekly report for the 5th week of being here. At the end of the day, I helped sir charles and sir jericho with the setup in the multi-purpose office for the recollection on Saturday.Day 23: Improved and optimized image quality with the help of Figma to eliminate visual problems with alignment on the site. Added on to the already enhanced assets continued development of the web pages.Day 24: Added and normalized client logos in Figma to make sure that the site has a consistent resolution. Arranged with supervisor, Sir Bernard, on the rights to use the logo; all was cleared to proceed with the use of the logos in the local staging environment, pending the official approval before the site would go live.Day 25: Created and designed the about us page. Installed the zigzag design with tailored icons to improve the visual flow and readability as well as user-interactive quality.Day 26: Reduced 19 different services provided by Streamlined MHCI in 8 main categories in order to enhance the user experience. Came up with a grid layout with icon boxes to display these categories effectively and in a systematic manner in the about us page.Day 27: Optimized the homepage by streamlining different parts of it and fixing alignment issues while continued development of about us. Also, offered administrative assistance to Sir Charles, by sifting through the file cabinet to find information that is linked to a particular person.Day 28:I worked on the services page and did its improvement as I noticed this morning that the pictures used in the previous sections were blurred. The focus of the week was on improving the professional level of the web platform by attention to asset management and optimization of layout and the About us page. Day 29 - Used practical knowledge about a web design to locate and correct the current design errors, which helped greatly in the overall design of the project. I was also able to offer technical assistance to a Maam Doris who had an equipment breakdown in one of the meetings. Since the situation was dire due to her being in a meeting and she needed another headset, we temporarily gave her my PC's headset while I diagnosed hers.  After the diagnosis, I found a hardware defect which is a broken center speaker, and I officially reported a damage report about the defective unit that was verified by Sir Jerico.
Day 30 - Further work on the designated web project, with the focus on the UI changes and rectifying the functionality of buttons in order to be presented by Sir Bernabe as an update on where the website is headed. I also reviewed the architecture of the site and addressed a structural conflict by having the service-related contents moved out of the "About Us" page into the page named Services. Moreover, I worked with the MITSD team to gather necessary personnel information (middle initial and surnames) to complete the directory of the site.Day 31 - Concentrated mostly on the mobile responsiveness of the web site of the about us page and homepage. I have detected and fixed a number of layout breaks that happen on mobile devices and made sure that the site is completely cross-platform and that the user experience is smooth. Maam Yvette advised me to seek out a design that involved dividers to separate sections that I did with the shape dividers on elementor.Day 32 - The main work I was engaged in was to keep on with the mobile responsiveness updates of the rest of the web pages and especially the Services section. To address the problem of misaligning due to the stickiness of the zigzag design when used on smaller screens I added a layout breakpoint of 1024px, so that the zigzag format is not used on handheld devices. Other than web development activities, I was also involved in the cleaning of the recollection meeting that followed after the meeting with Sir Charles and assisted Sir Jericho in moving the computers of the accounting department .Day 33 As I started working on the mobile and iPad responsiveness, I found out that some sections I made earlier were not efficient. I modified these sections and then made them responsive. While doing this, I thought about how to automate the job postings. I eventually found make.com and Zapier. I asked Ma'am Yvette if they use those tools, and she explained the overall differences between the two workflow automations.Day 34 I focused on making the "Work With Us" page responsive. I noticed that some shape dividers were misaligned, so I fixed them. I also adjusted the paddings to make the page look better and easier on the eyes. As a side task, I helped Sir Charles print the new job request forms. I cut a bunch of them and arranged them in their proper places.Day 35 I was tasked with printing and preparing MITSD's new job request forms. First, I double-checked for misspelled words to make sure they met Sir Bernabe's standards. After that, Sir Jerico gave me access to their ATM System. Later, Sir Charles taught me how to use the system. This included how to find the bincard text box, how to locate the bincard, how to input data, and what details to look out for.Day 36 Today, Sir Bernabe assigned me to double-check the bincards. I had to make sure that the records on the paper bincards matched the records in the ATM System. He reminded me to be very precise. He explained that department heads often ask for reports, and he needs to be able to pull them out immediately using the system he developed.Day 37 On the final day of my shift, I focused on organizing the folders for both MHCI and ISO Tech. Following the instructions from Sir Bernabe, I laid out all the documents and arranged them alphabetically. I then carefully placed each folder into its respective section to ensure it was orderly and easy to navigate. To sum it all up, I have learned to become more detail-oriented with Sir Bernabe’s help. Day 38 As for this day, I focused on both web development and office administration tasks. In the corporate website, I added breadcrumbs for the purpose of improving the general user experience and the ranking of the page on search engines. I also updated the Service Request Forms requested by Sir Bernabe, where I added a specific field for the "bincard no." In the afternoon, I moved on to administrative duties, which involved organizing physical files. I sorted bincard forms into their respective folders and arranged them alphabetically in the file cabinet. Moreover, I made new folders and labeled them to correctly place bincards that did not have any storage previously.Day 39 This day was assigned to me for system testing and records management. I conducted SMTP testing on the website by sending messages to contact forms first before deciding on the messages going to the respective designated email addresses. On the other hand, the physical records management part was to update the "ISO-PAMPANGA OFFICE-BINCARD" label of the folder to "ISO-LA UNION OFFICE-BINCARD" to ensure correctness. In addition to that, the encoding of the bincard from MaYo Holdings and Construction, Inc. (MHCI) to the digital system was my priority. The last thing I did was to organize the rest of the paperwork by correctly filing the "NA" bincards into their designated folder.Day 40 Towards the end of the week‚ I had an instruction from Sir Jericho‚ where I was taught how to use the Ricoh scanner in the office as well as how to troubleshoot and fix problems if it was not working․ Sir Jericho showed me how to detect and rectify system errors‚ cancel any tasks‚ and how to restart the system․ Not long after that lesson‚ I was transferred to a clerical job‚ which was about better organizing things in the office․ I was tasked to find a few physical folders and modified the folder names compared to the original ones‚ I used a color-coding technique and fonts which the company has been using․ This allowed for visual uniformity and efficient file management for the team․Day 41 I assisted Sir Jericho and Sir Charles with a company event held on the premises. We set up two laptops, two mobile phones, a Jabra microphone, a projector, and a projector screen. We used an app to turn the mobile phones into webcams for the laptops. This allowed people attending online via Zoom to watch the orientation. We positioned the cameras to get good angles of the onsite attendees and presenters, and we set up the Jabra microphone so the online guests could hear everything clearly.Day 42 I focused on maintaining the website because 14 plugins needed updates. I was careful because a bad update could break the site. I did some research first and then created a full backup of the website just in case I needed to undo the changes. I updated 13 plugins but left one alone because its new update seemed unstable and changed too many features. After that, I improved the email system. The old emails looked messy, so I used PHP code to change the email subject line to a cleaner format with a tracking number. This created a simple ticketing system for tracking website inquiries.Day 43 At the start of my shift, I prepared the website for a presentation. I noticed that the job postings embedded from Facebook were not showing up because the site is still in local development. To fix this quickly, I built a temporary layout. This new layout allows us to easily add a job posting, and it will automatically display the content neatly in a grid format on the page. Day 44 I focused on improving the website's features. I figured out a way to automatically add a label to incoming emails so the staff knows they came directly from the Mayo website. Finally, I added call-to-action buttons on the Services page to encourage users to interact more with the site or when they inquire about their requested service. Also, I added  “setDynamicEmailRouting” and “autoSelectServiceDropdown” which checks the button that has been clicked in PHP.  At the end, segregated the BCSD according to companies.
